# Core UI

The aim of this project is to provide a high quality, well tested, and thoroughly documented, modern asset pipeline and application shell for Node.js applications based upon the latest industry standards.


## FAQ

### What is an asset pipeline?

An asset pipeline is a set of tools and processes used to compile and optimise source code into a set of static JavaScript and CSS assets for use by a web browser. This may include [transpiling], [bundling], and [minification] steps.

[transpiling]: https://scotch.io/tutorials/javascript-transpilers-what-they-are-why-we-need-them
[bundling]: https://nolanlawson.com/2017/05/22/a-brief-and-incomplete-history-of-javascript-bundlers/
[minification]: https://blog.stackpath.com/glossary/minification/

### What is an application shell?

The application shell provides the tools required to locate and load the static assets generated by the asset pipeline and provide them to the browser. This includes the loading of JavaScript, stylesheets, fonts, and a minimal HTML document.

### Why are you doing this?

All of the user facing applications that together make up FT.com use a module called [n-ui]. This module currently provides:- an asset pipeline; an application shell; template loading and configuration; shared header and footer UI; navigation; tracking and analytics setup; global messaging components; and several other features. Although we rely on this module heavily it is not well understood by the current team and is tightly coupled to technical decisions that were made several years ago.

We plan to split these functions into a suite of tightly defined, loosely coupled modules based upon the current best standards. The aim is to provide a foundation which enables teams to work efficiently with the technologies best suited to solving the problems they have.

See the [core UI pitch document] for more information.

[n-ui]: https://github.com/Financial-Times/n-ui
[core UI pitch document]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UNRbX-BpPESA4-wSfCb6DRYIijyOUhBJh99iUE95cU0/edit?usp=sharing

### Does this replace n-ui?

The intention of this project is to gain in-depth knowledge about the features and usage of n-ui and to use this knowledge to help create a new suite of tools. If we are successful then we will help and encourage developers to migrate from n-ui to them.

### How does this relate to Origami?

This project does not include any visual changes to the FT.com application UI so the relationship between FT.com and Origami will remain unchanged.

### Will this target non-FT.com teams?

It is our aim to build a core set of modules which should be considered usable by the wider JavaScript community. On top of this core we will build FT specific modules. We hope that by introducing this conceptual divide we can make fewer assumptions, encourage contributions, and more effectively manage opinionated parts of the codebase.
